# Machine-Learning-with-Chicago-Crime-Trends

For my project, I am analyzing a Chicago crimes dataset to find out a few different key insights and to be able to predict next year’s total crimes in the city. The Chicago Crimes dataset consists of statistics on crime within the city starting from 2001 and are updated weekly. The information included in the dataset represent all aspects of the crime from location to type of crime and even the district where the crime occurred. With more than 7 million entries, this database is used regularly, according to the Police Department website, to aid law enforcement and researchers with investigating crime further. This data set also was used to track crime and arrest patterns in the past. To begin with, I had to import several libraries such as Pandas and Matplotlib, so I can use dataframes and generate plots and charts to accompany my programming insights. Furthermore, instead of using an API, I was able to find and utilize a CSV file with a filter for every year including and after 2018. The data itself was found via BigQuery in the Google Cloud console but was taken from the Chicago Police Department’s website. Instead of utilizing the cloud console to provide me with the data, I found an external file on the department’s website and was able to filter through and select the years that I desired to start with using BigQuery. The softwares that I used for collection includes the Chicago Police Department’s data web service, Microsoft Excel, and Google Colab to help me load in my information. The size of the total file is roughly 332.5 megabytes and consists of 1,249,753 different observations. There are also thirty different columns within the data, these columns include: date, year, primary type, description, arrest, location descriptions, district, ward, zip codes, and information pertaining to the police’s beat.

Continue reading at...
Medium Article: https://medium.com/@dnchawla21/chicago-crime-dataset-2017-2023-predictive-policing-and-trend-analysis-e5f10efd04db
